## Early-Alzheimer-s-Detection

1. PROBLEM STATEMENT '\n'
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of uncertain cause and pathogenesis that primarily affects older adults and is the most common cause of dementia.
The earliest clinical manifestation of AD is selective memory impairment and while treatments are available to ameliorate some symptoms, there is no cure currently available.
Brain Imaging via magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), is used for evaluation of patients with suspected AD.
MRI findings include both, local and generalized shrinkage of brain tissue. Below is a pictorial representation of tissue shrinkage:braintissue
Some studies have suggested that MRI features may predict rate of decline of AD and may guide therapy in the future.
However in order to reach that stage clinicians and researchers will have to make use of machine learning techniques that can accurately predict progress of a patient from mild cognitive impairment to dementia.
We propose to develop a sound model that can help clinicians do that and predict early alzheimer's.

2. DATA
The team has found MRI related data that was generated by the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies (OASIS) project that is available both, on their website and kaggle that can be utilized for the purpose of training various machine learning models to identify patients with mild to moderate dementia.
3. DATASET DESCRIPTION
We will be using the longitudinal MRI data.
The dataset consists of a longitudinal MRI data of 150 subjects aged 60 to 96.
Each subject was scanned at least once.
Everyone is right-handed.
72 of the subjects were grouped as 'Nondemented' throughout the study.
64 of the subjects were grouped as 'Demented' at the time of their initial visits and remained so throughout the study.
14 subjects were grouped as 'Nondemented' at the time of their initial visit and were subsequently characterized as 'Demented' at a later visit. These fall under the 'Converted' category.
